OBJECT:

The object of the game is to become the wealthiest player through buying, renting and selling of property.


EQUIPMENT:

A computer that can run a java program


THE BANK:

Besides the Bank's money, the Bank holds the Title Deeds, and the houses and hotels prior to purchase by the players. The Bank pays salaries and bonuses. It sells properties and hands out the proper Title Deed cards when purchased by a player, it also sells houses and hotels to the players and loans money when required on mortgages.
The Bank collects all taxes, fines, loans and interest, and the price of all properties which it sells.


THE PLAY:

Player one goes first. Roll the dice and your token will move clockwise around the board.
After you have completed your play, click "end turn." The tokens remain on the spaces occupied and proceed from that point on the player's next turn. Two or more tokens may rest on the same space at the same time. 
Depending on the space your token reaches, you may be entitled to buy real estate or other properties, or be obliged to pay rent, pay taxes, draw a Chance or Community Chest card, Go To Jail, or etc...

If you throw doubles, your token will move as usual, the sum of the two dice, and you are subject to any privileges or penalties pertaining to the space on which you land. Retaining the dice, roll again and your token will move as before. If you throw doubles three times in succession, your token will immediately go to the space marked "In Jail".


GO:

Each time a player's token lands on or passes over GO, whether by throwing the dice or drawing a card, the Banker pays that player a $200 salary.
The $200 is paid only once each time around the board. However, if a player passing GO on the throw of the dice lands 2 spaces beyond it on Community Chest, or 7 spaces beyond it on Chance, and draws the "Advance to GO" card, they collect $200 for passing GO the first time, and another $200 for Advancing to it the second time by the instructions on the card.


BUYING PROPERTY:

Whenever you land on an unowned property you may buy that property from the Bank at its printed price. You receive the Title Deed card showing ownership.


PAYING RENT:

When you land on a property that is owned by another player, the owner collects rent from you in accordance with the list printed on its Title Deed card.
If the property is mortgaged, no rent can be collected. 
It is an advantage to hold all the Title Deed cards in a color-group (i.e., Boardwalk and Park Place, or Connecticut, Vermont and Oriental Avenues) because the owner may then charge double rent for unimproved properties in that color-group. This rule applies to unmortgaged properties even if another property in that color-group is mortgaged.
It is even more advantageous to have houses or hotels on properties because rents are much higher than for unimproved properties. 


CHANCE AND COMMUNITY CHEST:

When you land on either of these spaces, you will draw a card, follow the instructions The "Get Out of Jail Free" card is held until used when needed. If the player who draws it does not wish to use it, then they may sell it, at any time, to another player at a price agreeable to both.


INCOME TAX:

If you land here you have one option: Pay $200.


JAIL 

You land in Jail when...
(1)	Your token lands on the space marked "Go to Jail",
(2)	You draw a card marked "Go to Jail" or
(3)	You throw doubles three times in succession.
When you are sent to Jail you cannot collect your $200 salary in that move since, regardless of where your token is on the board, you must move directly into Jail. Your turn ends when you are sent to Jail.
If you are not "sent to jail" but in the ordinary course of play lands on that space, you are
"Just Visiting", you incur no penalty, and you move ahead in the usual manner on your next turn.
You still are able to collect rent on your properties because you are "Just Visiting".

A player gets out of Jail by...
(1) Throwing doubles on any of your next three turns,
if you succeed in doing this you immediately move forward the number of spaces shown by your doubles throw. Even though you had thrown doubles, you do not take another turn.
(2) Using the "Get Out of Jail Free Card"
(3) Purchasing the "Get Out of Jail Free Card" from another player and playing it.
(4) Paying a fine of $50 before you roll the dice on either of your next two turns. If you do not throw doubles by your third turn, you must pay the $50 fine. You then get out of Jail and immediately move forward the number of spaces shown by your throw.
Even though you are in Jail, you may buy and sell property, buy and sell houses and hotels and collect rents.


FREE PARKING

A player landing on this place does not receive any money, property or reward of any kind.
This is just a "free" resting-place.


HOUSES

When a player owns all the properties in a color-group they may buy houses from the Bank
and erect them on those properties.
If you buy one house, you may put it on any one of those properties. The next house you buy must be erected on one of the unimproved properties of this or any other complete color-group you may own. The price you must pay the Bank for each house is shown on your Title Deed card for the property on which you erect the house. The owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on the unimproved properties of there complete color-group.
Following the above rules, you may buy and erect at any time as many houses as your judgement and financial standing will allow. But you must build evenly, i.e., you cannot erect more than one house on any one property of any color-group until you have built one house on every property of that group. You may then begin on the second row of houses, and so on, up to a limit of four houses to a property. For example, you cannot build three Houses on one property if you have only one house on another property of that group.
As you build evenly, you must also break down evenly if you sell houses back to the Bank (see SELLING PROPERTY).


HOTELS

When a player has four houses on each property of a complete color-group, they may buy a hotel from the Bank and erect it on any property of the color-group. They return the four houses from that property to the Bank and pay the price for the hotel as shown on the Title Deed card. Only one hotel may be erected on any one property.


BUILDING SHORTAGES

When the Bank has no houses to sell, players wishing to build must wait for some player to return or sell their houses to the Bank before building. If there are a limited number of houses and hotels available and two or more players wish to buy more than the Bank has, the houses or hotels must be sold at auction to the highest bidder.


SELLING PROPERTY

Unimproved properties, railroads and utilities (but not buildings) may be sold to any player as a private transaction for any amount the owner can get. However, no property can be sold to another player if buildings are standing on any properties of that color-group. Any buildings so located must be sold back to the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color-group.

Houses and Hotels may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one-half the price paid for them. All houses on one color-group may be sold at once, or they may be sold one house at a time (one hotel equals five houses), evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were erected.
It is up to the players to decided to follow the rule of building houses and hotels evenly across a set. This rule will not be enforced by the program. 


MORTGAGES

Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the Bank at any time. Before an improved property can be mortgaged, all the buildings on all the properties of its color-group must be sold back to the Bank at half price. The mortgage value is printed on each Title Deed card.

No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties or utilities, but rent can be collected on un-mortgaged properties in the same group.

In order to lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the Bank the amount of mortgage. When all the properties of a color-group are no longer mortgaged, the owner may begin to buy back houses at full price.

The player who mortgages property retains possession of it and no other player may secure it by lifting the mortgage from the Bank. However, the owner may sell this mortgaged property to another player at any agreed price. If you are the new owner, you may lift the mortgage at once if you wish by paying off the mortgage plus 10% interest to the Bank.


BANKRUPTCY

When a player ends their turn with a negative balance, they go bankrupt. When a player goes bankrupt, all their remaining assets are given to the bank. Properties they had will be put up for sale. 


MISCELLANEOUS

Money can be loaned to a player only by the Bank and then only by mortgaging property. No player may borrow from or lend money to another player. 


